Abstract
State-of-Health (SOH) Estimating of lithium-ion batteries is crucial for safe and efficient energy storage. Direct Health Indicators (HIs) to measure degradation and predict the SOH of batteries are Capacity and internal resistance of the battery. However, these HIs are challenging to measure because the internal state variables of batteries are not accessible to sensors during operational conditions. In the proposed method, an efficient method for estimation of SOH is proposed by using indirect health indicators such as Time Interval of Equal Discharge Voltage Difference (TIEDVD) and Incremental Capacity (IC) curve Peaks. Pearson correlation based analysis is performed to analyze the correlation between HIs and actual battery capacity degradation. Moreover, the prediction of SOH is carried out using the Gaussian Process Regression (GPR) algorithm with a composite kernel that consists of a Radial Basis Function (RBF) kernel and a Rational Quadratic (RQ) for modeling complex data with varying degrees of smoothness. The Lithium-ion battery dataset collected at Stanford University is used. The results show that the direct HI model achieves 100% accuracy at the cost of poor time complexity, while the proposed indirect model provides 97% accuracy in a very short duration, thus a promising method for precise prediction of battery SOH.
DATASET AVAILABILITY:Institution: Stanford Energy Control Lab, Energy Resources Engineering Department, Stanford University. City, State: Stanford, California. Country: United States of America. Latitude and longitude for collected samples/data: (37.426666918636386, -122.17397631867011). 
Data accessibility Repository name: Dataset_SECL_INR21700-M50T Data identification number (permanent identifier, i.e. DOI number): osf.io/qsabn 
Direct link to the dataset: https://osf.io/qsabn/?view_only=2a03b6c78ef14922a3e244f3d549de78


